WMCO 7.2.1 release notes (#71507)
openshift/openshift-docs: windows_containers/windows-containers-release-notes-7-x.adoc

If you do not have this additional Red Hat subscription, you can use the Community Windows Machine Config Operator, a distribution that lacks official support.
endif::openshift-origin[]

[id="wmco-7-2-1"]

> == Release notes for Red Hat Windows Machine Config Operator 7.2.1

Reviewer: Per [RHSSG](https://redhat-documentation.github.io/supplementary-style-guide/#non-breaking-spaces) add a non breaking space here:
```suggestion
== Release notes for Red{nbsp}Hat Windows Machine Config Operator 7.2.1
```

This release of the WMCO provides new features and bug fixes for running Windows compute nodes in an {product-title} cluster. The components of the WMCO 7.2.1 were released in link:https://access.redhat.com/errata/RHSA-{TBD}[RHSA-{TDB}].

[id="wmco-7-2-1-bug-fixes"]
=== Bug fixes

// Also in 10.15.0

> * Previously, the WMCO did not properly wait for Windows VMs to finish rebooting. This led to occasional timing issues where the WMCO would attempt to interact with a node that was in the middle of a reboot, causing WMCO to log an error and restart node configuration. Now, the WMCO waits for the instance to completely reboot. (link:https://issues.redhat.com/browse/OCPBUGS-23036[*OCPBUGS-23036*])

Reviewer: I'd spell out the first occurrence of VM in this section:
```suggestion
* Previously, the WMCO did not properly wait for Windows virtual machines (VMs) to finish rebooting. This led to occasional timing issues where the WMCO would attempt to interact with a node that was in the middle of a reboot, causing WMCO to log an error and restart node configuration. Now, the WMCO waits for the instance to completely reboot. (link:https://issues.redhat.com/browse/OCPBUGS-23036[*OCPBUGS-23036*])
```

// Also in 10.15.0

> * Previously, the WMCO configuration was missing the `DeleteEmptyDirData: true` field, which is required for draining nodes that have emptyDir volumes attached. As a consequence, customers that had nodes with emptyDir data volumes would see the following error in the logs: `cannot delete Pods with local storage`. With this fix, the `DeleteEmptyDirData: true` field was added to the node drain helper struct in the WMCO. As a result, customers are able to drain nodes with emptyDir volumes attached. (link:https://issues.redhat.com/browse/OCPBUGS-23081[*OCPBUGS-23081*])

Reviewer: Question - do you know if the phrase "emptyDir" shows up in any code or file, and if that's what's specifically being referred to here? If so, I think it should be in literals:
```suggestion
* Previously, the WMCO configuration was missing the `DeleteEmptyDirData: true` field, which is required for draining nodes that have `emptyDir` volumes attached. As a consequence, customers that had nodes with `emptyDir` data volumes would see the following error in the logs: `cannot delete Pods with local storage`. With this fix, the `DeleteEmptyDirData: true` field was added to the node drain helper struct in the WMCO. As a result, customers are able to drain nodes with `emptyDir` volumes attached. (link:https://issues.redhat.com/browse/OCPBUGS-23081[*OCPBUGS-23081*])
```

// Also in 10.15.0
* Previously, because of bad logic in the networking configuration script, the WICD was incorrectly reading carriage returns in the CNI configuration file as changes, and identified the file as modified. This caused the CNI configuration to be unnecessarily reloaded, potentially resulting in container restarts and brief network outages. With this fix, the WICD now reloads the CNI configuration only when the CNI configuration is actually modified. (link:https://issues.redhat.com/browse/OCPBUGS-27771[*OCPBUGS-27771*])

* Previously, the WMCO incorrectly approved the node certificate signing requests (CSR) for all nodes trying to join a cluster, not just Windows node CSRs. With this fix, the WMCO approves CSRs for only Windows nodes as expected. (link:https://issues.redhat.com/browse/OCPBUGS-27139[*OCPBUGS-27139*])

// Also in 10.15.0

> * Previously, because of routing issues present in Windows Server 2019, under certain conditions and after more than one hour of running time, workloads on Windows Server 2019 could have experienced packet loss when communicating with other containers in the cluster. This fix enables Direct Server Return (DSR) routing within kube-proxy. As a result, DSR now causes request and response traffic to use a different network path, circumventing the bug within Windows Server 2019. (link:https://issues.redhat.com/browse/OCPBUGS-28254[*OCPBUGS-28254*])

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
* Previously, because of routing issues present in Windows Server 2019, under certain conditions and after more than one hour of running time, workloads on Windows Server 2019 could experience packet loss when communicating with other containers in the cluster. This fix enables Direct Server Return (DSR) routing within kube-proxy. As a result, DSR now avoids the bug within Windows Server 2019 by causing request and response traffic to use a different network path. (link:https://issues.redhat.com/browse/OCPBUGS-28254[*OCPBUGS-28254*])
```

Also, is "kube-proxy" something that should go in backticks?

Author: > Also, is "kube-proxy" something that should go in backticks?

Doesn't seem to be when I checked.

* Previously, because the upgrade path from WMCO 6.x to WMCO 7.x included previously released versions, the WMCO would fail during the upgrade. With this fix, you can successfully upgrade from WMCO 6.x to WMCO 7.x. (link:https://issues.redhat.com/browse/OCPBUGS-27775[*OCPBUGS-27775*])

// Also in 10.15.0

> * Previously, because of a lack of synchronization between Windows machine set nodes and Bring-Your-Own-Host (BYOH) instances, during an update the machine set nodes and the BYOH instances could update simultaneously, which could have impacted running workloads. This fix introduces a locking mechanism so that machine set nodes and BYOH instances update individually. (link:https://issues.redhat.com/browse/OCPBUGS-23020[*OCPBUGS-23020*])

Reviewer 2: WMCO is just compute machine sets, right? (I could def be misremembering, if so disregard)

```suggestion
* Previously, because of a lack of synchronization between Windows compute machine set nodes and Bring-Your-Own-Host (BYOH) instances, during an update the compute machine set nodes and the BYOH instances could update simultaneously, which could impact running workloads. This fix introduces a locking mechanism so that compute machine set nodes and BYOH instances update individually. (link:https://issues.redhat.com/browse/OCPBUGS-23020[*OCPBUGS-23020*])
```
